---
title: "Upgrading to FlexSearch and Adding UI Refinements"
date: 2025-06-19
description: "test"
tags: ["react", "typescript", "tailwind", "shadcn/ui", "simple-icons"]
---

https://www.youtube.com/embed/6EQXrJKSctc

## Migrating from Semantic Search to FlexSearch

After messing around with the semantic search yestarday, I realized that running an encoder in the browser simply was not powerful enough to give
satisfying search results. I would have had to rent a server and run a dedicated cpu/gpu for a larger model for this to be worth it. Since I don't plan on spending money on this yet, and I imagine people looking through my blog know what they're looking for, I'm opting for just having tags and basic keyword search. That's why I migrated to flexsearch. Each blog post is still pre-parsed to remove all stopwords and markdown syntax. However, I just load this all up and create a local FlexSearch document search which is queried instead. This is much simpler to work with, and gives good results. It means that I will not get the benefits of a semantic search system, so people will have to know what they want to find AND it has to be spelt right, but this is fine for now.

## Implementing Technology Tag Icons

I added nice little tech tag icons too. Each post has a few tags that represent the technologies used in the post, and I'm going to make it so when you click them it filters all posts by these technologies. Perfect for anyone curious about what I have experience with. They have a nice transition and everything!

## Search UX

I also added some basic UX features. For the search bar, a bit of text now comes down that tells you what your last query are, with a little X  button for clearing the search. It animates down in a smooth way. Overall, very happy with it.

## Improving Accessibility and Theme Support

I also switched the entire website to darkmode with an orange tint. These colors look very nice.

## Deployment

I started working on setting up github pages deployment, but github refuses to serve my markdown files. I'm going to have to figure out how to either get around whatever is causing this, or serve the blog somewhere else.
